Grab your monkey wrench,
and say no to cocaine,
because we are going to UNBLOCK!
[INTRO MUSIC]
Hello, internet
and welcome to Game Theory!
Gamings tangential educational experience!
Since last week, the first episode on theoretical physics, a BIT has been hard,
Today we are going to clarify things
by spending time at the world's most famous unblocker,
Mario ...
Uh ...
Mario.
But,
what do we REALLY know about this international mysterious man?
Nintendo has pulled the wool over the eyes of Western audiences
about Mario's REAL origins?
Let's discover it.
Mario's FIRST career was a ...
CARPENTER...
Running on girders to stop evil monkeys in "Donkey Kong."
It was only in 1983 arcade game "Mario Brothers,"
that he got his start as an Italian-American plumber in New York.
Here Mario - and brother, Luigi - must fight turtles, crabs, and flies.
wandering through the pipelines.
So, as someone currently living in New York,
and assuming that flying in a sewer is a given,
I ask: Are there really turtles and crabs running through the pipes of the city?
Well, let's start with the crabs.
The long winters of New York,
and the AL contaminated and cold conditions of the sewer,
it would be quite challenging for a crab to survive there.
However, in ITALY, with its warmer climate,
Can crabs in the sewer be dated back to the year 100.
When Emperor Trajan imported crabs from Macedonia,
and set them free in the center of town for him, as part of a Pagan crab festival.
Those who escaped and flourished in the sewer
and to this day, they are called "Trajan Krabben" -
- scratching sewer.
But what about the turtles?
And NO, these turtles do not count.
Although specific data is rare,
It is generally believed that the cool, dark and bacteria-ridden conditions of the sewer
prevent cold-blooded animals, such as turtles, from surviving underground and reproducing.
However, there IS another side to the story.
Volksmond is full of stories about unwanted pets being flushed in toilets,
and later bloom in the sewer.
According to Robert Daley's "The World Beneath the City"
In 1935 it was known that New York sewers contained crocodiles,
And there are now several reports about the animals being caught on city streets.
As recent as 2006 in Brooklyn.
BUT, the most striking of them all, in Alexandria, Australia,
rescuers found a rare American snapping turtle
- which they nicknamed. "Cowabunga" - live in the sewers.
Looks familiar?
So,
In the end there might be something ...
Returning to our portly plumber's adventures in "Super Mario Bros" games,
our red-clad hero finds himself in the Mushroom Kingdom.
A plumbing paradise of pipes,
hidden with fire-breathing weeds and extensive brick sewers.
I originally wanted to find out if it is possible to clean pipes using fireballs,
because it looks like that is Mario's only plumbing technique,
but Google search for "weed (pipes) in pipes"
did not give me exactly what I was looking for.
But I finally found this fact:
Pets are not the only things that are flushed in the toilets.
Another popular popular story about New York sewers in the 60s
was that of "New York White."
A particularly powerful albino strain of marijuana
grows from seeds in 'pot bags'
they were flushed in the toilets during drug raids.
Unfortunately, this was never a verification.
Probably due to the crocodiles and mutated turtles that guard their supplies.
But, at a somewhat related point,
last month 39 pounds of pot was found that clogged up the sewer system in Arizona.
So, maybe Mario had some ulterior motives
when he fired the weed in those green tubes.
Speaking of green pipes,
That's a strange color for a pipe, right?
Not really.
First, many tubes are made of copper,
and copper exposed to moisture oxidizes,
creating a green patina on the surface.
For a classic example, just look at the Statue of Liberty.
So, all pipes can be in the Mushroom Kingdom
all are copper, which is just a little bit outdated,
But there is another explanation.
With the green movement in full swing,
more and more companies that make their products in a so-called "eco-friendly color."
For example, the German company "Aquatherm"
has built their reputation for a unique product line:
The appropriately named "GreenPipe."
A final note about Super Mario Brothers:
Notice how the underground parts of the game take place in brick sewers?
Well, Nintendo was lucky in the decision that Mario is from New York.
If he were from somewhere else, they would have been wrong,
considering that clay was the dominant material for pipes
when sewers were first installed - shortly after the Civil War,
and cast iron then became a popular choice.
New York sewers, on the other hand, are indeed brick,
Under the influence of Europeans,
who switched to brick systems
after a tragic experience with lead pipes,
Perhaps (lead) contributed to a shorter life expectancy.
This underground architecture, much still in use,
closely resembles a number of sewer designs that appear in later Mario games.
-like in Super Mario RPG.
And on that note,
[DID YOU KNOW...]
In the forest maze of Super Mario RPG,
Mario experiences a different kind of pipe.
Log pipes - they function very similarly to the normal green version.
Surprisingly, we start looking abroad again for a real world example.
Because maybe already in the 13th century,
people in England used hollowed tree trunks for water pipelines.
In the end the Americans took over the idea,
and installed wooden pipes in the early 1800s
[NOW YOU KNOW IT...]
And now it's time for my last thought.
We grew up believing what Nintendo has always told us,
that Mario is a true Italian-American thoroughbred from New York who lives in the Mushroom Kingdom!
But what we have seen here today could point in a different direction.
We learned that crabs run in the sewers of Italy,
and that turtles have a better chance of survival in sewer conditions with warmer climates.
Now we know that a leading green pipeline manufacturer has a headquarters in Germany,
and that stone pipelines and agricultural systems
can usually be found in old European cities
So what does this tell us?
Only this:
That our Italian - '' American '' unblocker actually has fewer American connections than we thought
and that - perhaps - the Mushroom Kingdom can actually be found in the Old Continent.
As a final nail in Mario's coffin,
As anyone in New York can tell you,
No REAL New Yorker would be found dead with brightly colored clothing.
His showy red robe is much more suited to the fru-fru styling of a European man.
Anyway,
Is it just a theory
A Game Theory!
Thanks for looking!